A tag cloud (also known as a word cloud, wordle or weighted list in visual 
design) is a visual representation of text data, which is often used to depict 
keyword metadata on websites, or to visualize free form text. Tags are usually 
single words, and the importance of each tag is shown with font size or color. 
When used as website navigation aids, the terms are hyperlinked to items 
associated with the tag. 

In the language of visual design, a tag cloud (or word cloud) is one kind of 
"weighted list", as commonly used on geographic maps to represent the relative 
size of cities in terms of relative typeface size. An early printed example of 
a weighted list of English keywords was the "subconscious files" in Douglas 
Coupland's Microserfs (1995). A German appearance occurred in 1992.

The specific visual form and common use of the term "tag cloud" rose to 
prominence in the first decade of the 21st century as a widespread feature of 
early Web 2.0 websites and blogs, used primarily to visualize the frequency 
distribution of keyword metadata that describe website content, and as a 
navigation aid.

The first tag clouds on a high-profile website were on the photo sharing site 
Flickr, created by Flickr co-founder and interaction designer Stewart 
Butterfield in 2004. That implementation was based on Jim Flanagan's Search 
Referral Zeitgeist, a visualization of Web site referrers. Tag clouds were 
also popularized around the same time by Del.icio.us and Technorati, among 
others.

Oversaturation of the tag cloud method and ambivalence about its utility as a 
web-navigation tool led to a decline of usage among these early adopters. 
Flickr gave a five-word acceptance speech for the 2006 "Best Practices" Webby 
Award, which simply stated "sorry about the tag clouds."

A second generation of software development discovered a wider diversity of 
uses for tag clouds as a basic visualization method for text data. Several 
extensions of tag clouds have been proposed in this context. 

Source: Wikipedia.org